# Analyse Problem Statement

## Context and Problem Statement
[Problem Statement](../../PROBLEM.MD)

## Analysis

Who is my client: merchant who wants to sell resources from earth to aliens.

Problem: it's impossible to communicate numerical values to aliens using human language and digits.

What we know:
- alien's numbers dictionary (e.g. "glob is I")
- resources exchange rate from alien's market (e.g. "glob glob Silver is 34 Credits").

Questions to the client:
- Does galactic market operates with arabic numbers and that 'glob glob' nonsense is a local language?
- Is 'Credits' a common galactic currency?
- Do they use pictograms for resources? How did merchant get know about resource type ('Silver')?

I can't ask these questions, so I assume that answers are 'yes'.

So, here are the Facts:
- Merchant only sells resources.
- There is some 'standard unit of measure' for Resource: 1 Wood, 1 Sea Water, etc. [question](#questions)
- Roman numerical system is a universal medium of 'amount' in the galaxy.
- Merchant uses local market with local numerical systems.
- 'Credits' is a common galactic currency. Also, galactic civilians use arabic numbers to define an amount of Credits.
- Galactic civilians use pictograms for resources or merchant just showing the resource he wants to sell.
  So, I claim that there is a common language used to refer to resources.

Hence, the main entities are:
- Resource from Earth: Gold, Silver, Dirt, Sea Water, etc.
- Credit (common currency expressed as an Arabic numeral): 53, 9999999999999999, 0. [question](#questions)
- Local numerical system (translator book): "glob is I", "bimbo is V". [question](#questions)
- Local exchange rates (market): "glob glob Silver is 34 Credits"

Use cases:
- Client configures the system in runtime with local numerical system and local exchange rates. [question](#questions)
- Client can translate local number to arabic one (or credit amount?).
- Client can find out how much Credits he'll get for selling certain local amount of Resource.
- In case of error (wrong command format?) system prints 'I have no idea what you are talking about'

As a client I'd also like to:
- Ask questions like 'how many Credits is 1 Gold ?'
- Have preconfigured shortcuts for frequently visited planets: 'save/load state for planet Grumben'

### Questions:
F: There is some 'standard unit of measure' for Resource: 1 Wood, 1 Sea Water, etc.

Q: That's a bit strange. Maybe local numbers also hold information about measure?

A: No, there is a standard measure for Sea Water (check out the House of Weights and Measures).
Let's consider 1 Gold/Sea Water/Banana as an OK situation.

---

F: Credit (common currency expressed as an Arabic numeral): 53, 9999999999999999, 0.

Q: Can Credits be fractional numbers? In other words, do galactic banks issue cents?

A: No, there is no cents in galaxy, only Credit coins. In case of fractional results, the amount of Credits will be rounded down.

---

F: Local numerical system (translator book): "glob is I", "bimbo is V".

A: Can a token ("glob") consist of 2 words?

Q: No, _now_ there is no language in galaxy with 2 tokens to define amount.

---

F: Client configures the system in runtime with local numerical system and local exchange rates.

A: Can client re-set values (in case of error)?

Q: Sure, people tend to make mistakes. Forcing client to restart app because of a mistake would be cruel.

---

"As a client I'd also like to ..."

I'll do it. Later.

## Extracting Requirements

Types of Commands:

* Associate LL token with Roman Number

Pattern: %local-language-word% is %roman-digit%

Example: glob is I

* Set market exchange rate for Resource

Pattern: %local-language-number% %resource% is %arab-number% Credits

Example: glob glob Silver is 34 Credits

* Get market price of exact amount of Resource in Credits

Pattern: how many Credits is %local-language-number% %resource% ?

Example: how many Credits is glob prok Silver ?

* Get arabic numbers representation of Local Language Number

Pattern: how much is %local-language-number% ?

Example: how much is pish tegj glob glob ?

Everything else should be processed as an error.
Example: how much wood could a woodchuck chuck if a woodchuck could chuck wood ?
Response: I have no idea what you are talking about

Usecases:
- [Market] Set Resource Unit Price (ResourceAmount(LocalNumber), Resource, Total Credits) -> Nothing
- [Market] Get Resource Unit Price (ResourceAmount(LocalNumber), Resource) -> Total Credits
- [Translator] Associate LocalDigit with RomanDigit (LocalDigit, RomanDigit) -> Nothing
- [Translator] Translate LocalNumber (LocalNumber) -> Amount

Domain Entities:
- ResourceAmount(LocalNumber)
- LocalNumber(List<LocalDigit>)
- LocalDigit(String)
- RomanNumber(List<RomanDigit>)
- RomanDigit(Int)
- Resource(String)
- Credits(IntegerAmount)
- IntegerAmount(BigInteger)
- *UnitPrice(FractionalAmount)
- *FractionalAmount(BigDecimal)

* for market price registry
