# CLI

## Context and Problem Statement
I don't know how to parse, extract arguments and run commands

## Structure

- Application - DI and lifecycle management of dependencies
- Application Shell - endless loop for command handling and running
- Command - supertype of usecase runner/result processor
- Extractor - component, that matches and extracts arguments from command line to create CommandArguments
- CommandArguments - layer of converters to encapsulate validation handling

### Command
Sealed interface with a single 'execute' method
Responsibility: run use case and handle its execution result (convert results to string for cli)

To run usecase, Command should have all necessary data and injected usecase.
I want to store data as class properties and inject usecase to method to increase cohesion: 
usecase will be referenced only once in a single 'execute' method, but properties multiple (passing to usecase, constructing 
result or error strings)

## Final Design
- Command is a common supertype for all commands (business and utility/flow control).
  Commands store data necessary to execute usecase and single public method for usecase injection.
  Commands encapsulate usecase error processing logic (what to show user in CL).
- CommandParsers (former Extractor) form Chain of Responsibilities.
  Each element (parser) matches command (can I parse it?). 
  If yes, Parser extracts arguments from command string and constructs Command; if no, pushes it to the next parser.
  So, CommandParsers are mainly responsible for command construction and can contain supporting logic (eg command matching)
- RegexCommandParsers is a subtype of CommandParser which implements Template Method to deduplicate the common logic of
  matching commands using regex and lower complexity.
- ApplicationShell — nothing has changed
- Supporting logic: CommandExecutor injects usecases into commands;
  ParserFactory is a configuration of CoR construction.
  ParserFactory.ParserChainBuilder eliminates Pyramid of Doom caused by naive chain construction.
  CommandRegexBuilder helps to build regexes for commands in a more expressive DSL-like way.
  The class can bloat in the future, but I do not want to overcomplicate it right now.

#### That's it! Let's see how this module reacts to changes
- Add a new command: + ParserClass, + CommandClass, + one line in CommandExecutor and + one line ParserFactory.
  [optional] extend RegexBuilder.
  OCP enough.
- Command line pattern changed: changes in %CommandName%Parser.
  Wow, how SRP is it, no need to perform Shotgun Surgery!
- Change UI/user output: change one line in %CommandName%Command class

#### Testing
- Parsing and use case result processing are covered with unit tests;
- Shell, Executor and ParserFactory with integration tests.

